h2. Saikuro Treemap Generator

This gem generates a "treemap":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treemapping
showing the complexity of ruby code on which it is run. It uses 
"Saikuro":http://saikuro.rubyforge.org/ under the covers to analyze ruby
code complexity.

The size of blocks in the treemap is representative of the size of the
code element represented by that block. The color of the block indicates
complexity of that particular code element. Green is good, red is bad, 
blue is somewhere in between.

Small evenly distributed blocks which are green in color is indicative of
good code.

h2. Demo

"Click here":http://thoughtworksstudios.github.com/rake.ccn.html for a demo
of the CCN for the popular "rake":http://rake.rubyforge.org/ tool.

h2. Installation

<code>$ [sudo] gem install saikuro_treemap</code>

h2. Configuration

In your Rakefile, add the following:

<pre>
require 'saikuro_treemap'

namespace :metrics do
  desc 'generate ccn treemap'
  task :ccn_treemap do
    SaikuroTreemap.generate_treemap :code_dirs => ['lib']
    `open reports/saikuro_treemap.html`
  end
end
</pre> 

h2. Execute

<code>$ rake metrics:ccn_treemap</code>

This would generate the treemap report in "reports/saikuro_treemap.html".

h2. License

Saikuro Treemap Generator is MIT Licensed

The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2010 ThoughtWorks, Inc. (http://thoughtworks.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.